[Music]
12 smartphone functions that can save
your life almost everyone would agree
that a modern smartphone is an
absolutely irreplaceable thing don't you
think so Siri or Bixby are always ready
to choose the best coffee shop for you
warned you about nasty weather and
traffic jams or just wish you goodnight
in short these applications serve as
your personal assistant and/or friend
you use your smartphone to listen to
music mark important dates on your
calendar and surf the Internet your
gadget which is always at hand can even
become your bodyguard in this video will
tell you how your phone can save your
life in an emergency and that's just one
of the many useful things you'll get to
know if you subscribe to our channel so
don't forget to turn on notifications to
stay on the bright side of life with us
number 12 voice assistant voice
assistant was created for more than just
entertaining you or setting an alarm if
something terrible happens and you're
unable to call the emergency services
yourself your smartphone can call an
ambulance or rescuers for you all you
need to do is activate the voice
assistant by using your voice or
pressing a button then Siri for iPhones
or Google assistant for Android will do
everything you ask them to do
number eleven flashlight there's a
built-in flashlight in almost every
phone nowadays people typically use it
when they try to find something in the
dark or during a power outage
but this flashlight can become
irreplaceable in an emergency situation
use it to draw the attention of rescuers
or passers-by with the help of light
signals three short light signals then
three long ones and then three short
signals again as a result you'll create
an SOS signal which is the International
distress call by the way there are
flashlight applications for both iOS and
Android smartphones these clever
programs don't just illuminate your
surroundings they also have special
settings that allow you to choose either
an SOS or strobe option let's admit it
in a critical situation it may be
extremely hard to concentrate enough to
control the flashes of your phone and
all you have to do with this type of
application is press the button number
10 IC e contact if you're planning a
trip abroad this recommendation will
come in handy place your emergency
contact in your contact list under the
name IC e in case of emergency this
abbreviation is internationally known to
all emergency services as a result if
something happens they will be able to
contact your relatives or friends let's
see how you add this emergency contact
if you have an iPhone and what to do if
you're the owner of an Android iPhone
open the settings scroll down and press
SOS this button is situated in the third
set of options on the page tap set up
emergency contacts in health press
create medical ID you'll find it in the
middle of the page drag the show and
locked switch to the right
and tap add emergency contact you'll
find this option if you scroll down to
the bottom of the screen select the
person you want to become your emergency
contact it must be a phone number not a
Facebook profile
press done now the emergency services
will be able to call your emergency
contact without having to worry about
how to unlock your phone Android if you
have an Android smartphone there's a
chance that you don't have an IC e by
default in this case you will need to
download the application quick IC
as soon as you have this application on
your phone open it and press the right
pointing arrow in the bottom right
corner of the screen click allow to
grant the application access to your
contacts tap contacts and wait for a
pop-up menu to appear choose import from
contacts now select the person you want
to be your emergency contact number nine
a life-saving alarm a good old alarm on
your smart phone can be worth its weight
in gold in an emergency for example if
you're trapped under rubble it can't
move because of injuries or if you find
yourself in a similar situation where
there's nothing left to do but wait for
help so as to not lose consciousness
completely and possibly miss the arrival
of rescuers you can set an alarm let it
ring every one to three minutes to
prevent you from blacking out
number eight instant translator many
smartphones have the google translator
application in their default package
however not everyone knows that instead
of typing the word you need to
understand you can just point the
smartphone's camera at it the
translation will instantly appear on the
screen this function is absolutely
amazing especially if you're in a hurry
the sign is in Chinese and you aren't
sure if you'll ever be able to type
those hieroglyphs a cool fact is that
you can also use this application
offline to do this you need to download
language packs in advance number seven
compass
every iPhone has the default application
compass this app can help you deal with
simple navigation determine your
location and send this information with
your GPS coordinates to rescuers compass
also works perfectly well with such
programs as Google Maps as for Android
phones while some of them don't have a
compass app among their default programs
this application can be easily
downloaded from Google Play
number 6 emergency call button the
function emergency SOS on the newest
iPhone models 8a plus an X has become
even more fantastic it's obvious that
different locations in the world have
different emergency service numbers new
iPhones save you for memorizing these
numbers before your trip especially
since the chances are high that these
numbers will slip out of your mind in a
critical situation instead emergency SOS
connects you directly to the emergency
number of the country you're in one of
the main advantages of this option is
that you can activate it without having
to look at your phone screen or talk to
an operator that's especially helpful if
you can't move or speak here's how you
can activate emergency SOS
simultaneously press and hold one of the
volume buttons and the side button for a
couple of seconds swipe the emergency
SOS switch to the right
if you don't drag the slider but keep
holding the volume and slide button a
countdown will begin and an alert will
sound if you continue to press the
buttons throughout the alert your smart
phone will automatically call the
emergency services if you have an iPhone
7 or an older model quickly press the
side button five times then drag the
emergency SOS switch to the right
by the way in some countries you'll
still need to look at the screen of your
iPhone to choose one of several
emergency phone numbers for example in
China you'll have to pick between police
ambulance or fire department Samsung
Galaxy smartphones also have an
emergency feature in their operating
system it's called SOS messages this
function isn't enabled by default so
you'll need to set it up on your own but
once you do this you'll be able to send
an alert
four contacts would you need to select
in advance all you'll need to do to send
these messages is press the power button
three times in a row as a result your
emergency contacts will get a message
with a picture of your situation and
your location to set up this function
you should follow these steps go to
personal in your phone settings choose
privacy and emergency press send SOS
messages drag the switch to the right
agree to a disclaimer and add your
emergency contacts if you wish you can
choose to switch on to additional
options attach pictures will make it
possible to send photos and attach audio
recording will allow you to attach a
five-second audio recording to your
message number five parental control to
keep kids safe
parents can restrict their access to
particular programs or sites on iPhones
this can easily be done in settings open
settings and choose general scroll down
a bit and tap restrictions there you
will see enable restrictions you can do
this after entering your password
another interesting function is family
sharing after you switch on this
function you can share iBooks iTunes and
App Store purchases with five family
members in addition you'll be able to
control your kids requests and decline
the purchase of an app if you believe
it'll bring more harm than good to that
as for Android phones you can create a
restricted profile for your child use a
parental control app or set up parental
control in the Play Store
the next tips can only be used by iPhone
owners however if you know their Android
analogies please tell us in the comments
below the video number four secret video
recording
if you need to record a video on your
iPhone without the people around you
being aware of the recording use the
following life hack your iPhone should
be locked press the slide button so that
your phone brightens up but don't unlock
it completely slide the camera icon and
halfway up keep holding it in this
position choose the video mode while
still keeping your fingers on the screen
double press the home button three times
don't remove your finger from the screen
until your iPhone turns it off
automatically
voila your smartphone is recording a
video to stop it unlock the phone number
three bug if you have the latest version
of iOS you can easily turn your iPhone
into a spying bug to do this you need to
turn on the auto answer calls option in
your settings Settings General
accessibility call audio routing Auto
answer calls one more requirement you
have to turn on silent mode
you can now leave your phone in the
necessary place call your number from
another phone and listen to what people
are talking about here's one more tip
that will help you recognize the
intentions of your new acquaintances
switch on the voice recorder without
being noticed this will let you know if
your suspicions have been false number
two you're definitely okay ssin the
function find iPhone can be useful not
only when a smart phone goes missing but
also when a person disappears forewarned
is forearmed all you need to do is set
this function on your smart phone and
share your iCloud data with a closed
person then in an emergency they will
always be able to access your latest
geolocation and come to the rescue
number one safe driving iOS 11 offers
one more function that can save your
life if you're behind the wheel after
you turn on that do not disturb while
driving mode you will no longer be
distracted by incoming phone calls and
messages voice notifications will be
temporarily switched off and people
trying to contact you will get an
automatic reply that their message will
be read later at the same time maps will
work as usual hit the like button if
you're going to use or install at least
one of the apps we've spoken about
hopefully you'll never need them but
still stay safe
[Music]